Welcome back.
It's time to start coding.
First we'll import the three Python libraries we will need for now known by pandas and Saibai.
Throughout the course will gradually import the rest when they're needed.
We can import none pi as MP and pandas as Piti as we already know these two are quite conventional.
Let's finish off with Sai pi.
Now it's time to load our data.
We have all our data in the dot CSP file called segmentation data.
Now we will loaded in a new variable called DFS segmentation using the panda's method read see S.V.
by the way we know that the first column of the dataset is the individual I.D. So let's make it an index
column.
We can do that by setting the index underscore call argument to 0.
OK let's run the code the data from the CSB file will be loaded into a panda's data frame.
As you probably know that's an object that is very convenient for storing data for all kinds of manipulations
and analysis.
All right.
We already know what's contained in the segmentation data.
However we can validate that by using the head method which will display rows of the data frame and
here it is awesome.
Now let's get a summary of our data we can apply the described method to DFS segmentation to obtain
descriptive statistics about the columns of a data frame here's the result.
First we get the count.
This is the number of observations for each variable.
We can see that there are two thousand observations in total.
Then we get the means for the continuous variables age and income.
We see the average age and the average income respectively.
The average age is about thirty six years while the average income about one hundred twenty one thousand
dollars.
And what about the means of categorical values.
Unfortunately they aren't very meaningful for categorical variables that have only two values 0 and
1 the mean shows nothing more than the proportion of ones.
Let's take biological sex for instance.
Zero means male biological sex and one means female.
So the proportion of women in the dataset is forty five point seven percent.
Unfortunately we cannot say anything about education occupation and settlement size as the possible
values there are not only zero and 1.
All right.
Another piece of information we've got on the table are the minimum and maximum values as well as the
25th fiftieth and the seventy fifth percentiles these could sometimes be useful if you want to get an
idea about the distribution of a numerical variable.
Awesome.
Let's move on with our analysis.
A good way to get an initial understanding of the relationships between the different variables is to
explore how they correlate depending on the types of data you can employ different techniques to quantify
this correlation.
For our initial data exploration purposes a simple Pearson correlation will suffice.
Pearson is the default approach for most correlation methods in Python we calculate the correlations
between our variables using the core method applied to the DNA of segmentation data frame generally
correlation describes the linear dependency between variables.
It ranges from negative 1 1 with 1 indicating very strong positive correlation negative 1 strong negative
culinary correlation of zero between two variables means they are not linearly dependent.
Now let's look at the values in our matrix.
What did they tell us.
The diagonal values showed the correlation of a variable with itself.
So these values are always 1.
The Matrix is symmetrical so the entries over and under the diagonal are mirror images of themselves.
In fact sometimes you can see correlation matrices represented by just the lower part of this table
okay.
Let's explore the correlation.
If we look at positions 3 or 4 or 4 3 we see that there is a strong positive correlation between age
and education a value of zero point six five makes sense right.
Older people tend to be more highly educated.
How about income and occupation.
There a correlation is zero point six eight.
In other words if you have a higher salary you are more likely to live in a larger housing.
The correlation matrix is an extremely useful tool because we see exact correlation values between variables.
Unfortunately it's hard to get a general overview of the relationships between the features because
we're simply looking at numbers since we humans are visual creatures.
We can often use different data visualizations to perceive the information more intuitively a very convenient
tool for that is a heat map.
You may remember that we imported the number pi pandas and Saibai library at the beginning.
Technically you can import libraries anywhere in Python but that's not a good programming practice.
Indeed our code will look really messy if we have import scattered around everywhere.
It would be a lot cleaner if we have all the relevant libraries at the top.
So let's do it like real programmers and scroll back to the beginning for visualizations.
We will need the PI plot module from Matt.
Plot lib.
So lets imported as Pulte apart from map plot lib will use another package called seaborne to help us
out with visualizations.
So let's import seaborne as S.A. finally to override the default matte plot lib look with the seaborne
one we write S.A. dot set so for all graphs that are written in matte plot lib you can think of seaborne
as a nice skin for matte plot lib since seaborne is written on top of matte plot lib they are seamlessly
integrated and you don't have to worry about compatibility OK we have all the libraries we'll need for
visualizations First we create a matte plot lib figure let's set the size of the plot to twelve inches
wide by nine inches high using fixed size then let S be an S an S heat map for the correlation matrix
will retain the correlation coefficients with an art equals true let's also choose the colors for our
heat map.
I prefer having red for a lower negative values and blue for greater positive values.
The color scheme we'll use to achieve that is called Our D.B. U.
So we have to set the C map argument to already be you.
Note that there are many other options for the colors.
Nice examples are vividness or autumn.
You can check out the documentation online and choose a color scheme you prefer okay.
What else do we need.
Let's add some boundaries to the heat map using v men and V Max.
We'll set those to minus 1 and 1 respectively.
You may remember this was the range for the Pearson correlation between two variables.
Of course you can leave those two parameters out and Seabourn will infer them based on the values it
has received
what is left is to label our graph what we need is labels for the Y and the X axis
will set the x and y take labels and rotate the X months by 90 degrees to be able to read them
finally.
It's always important to set a title for our graph.
We'll call it correlation heat map.
Let's see the final result
fantastic.
So now the bluer the square between two variables the higher the positive correlation is between them
and on the opposite side the redder the square the higher the negative correlation is with this heat
map.
We can actually see the strong positive correlation between age and education or between occupation
and income.
We can also observe some other positive color narratives like the one between occupation and settlement
size.
These are the kinds of relationships we'll be looking for to use for segmentation purposes.
We leave it up to you to explore the heat map in detail and remember to try out the different color
options as well.
Great exploring the correlations between the features of the consumers is the first step to identifying
similar consumers and putting them together in groups which is the essence of segmentation finally.
Let's visualize our data using a scatter plot We'll scatter the points with P L T dot scatter we'll
plot age against income which are on position 2 and 4 in our data frame by using the I like method let's
label the x axis age and the y axis income.
Finally we name our plot visualization of raw data.
Good job.
Now we see all our 2000 observations along the two axes in our next lesson.
We'll standardize our data.
Thanks for watching.